# Day 1

In this part we learn about :

-   [Introduction to Extended Reality](#introduction-to-extended-reality)
-   [Augmented Reality](#augmented-reality)
-   [Unity](#unity)
-   [Vuforia](#vuforia)
-   [Unity and Vuforia Integration](#unity-and-vuforia-integration)
-   [Basic AR App](#basic-ar-app)

## Introduction to Extended Reality

Extended reality (XR) is a term referring to all real-and-virtual combined environments and human-machine interactions generated by computer technology and wearables.

## Subdomains of XR

1. Augmented Reality
2. Virtual Reality
3. Mixed Reality

## Augmented Reality

Augmented reality is an interactive experience of a real-world environment where the world are enhanced by computer-generated perceptual information.

## Types of AR

1. Markerless AR

    Markerless Augmented Reality scans the real environment and places digital elements on a recognizable feature, like a flat surface. It refers to a software application that doesn't require prior knowledge to overlay virtual 3D content into a scene and hold it to a fixed point in space. 
    Eg. Ikea 

2. Marker based AR

    Maker-based AR works by scanning a marker which triggers an augmented experience (whether an object, text, video or animation) to appear on the device. It usually requires software in the form of an app, which enables users to scan markers from their device using its camera feed.
    
## Unity

Unity is a cross-platform game engine developed by Unity Technologies, first announced and released in June 2005 at Apple Worldwide Developers Conference as a Mac OS X game engine. The engine has since been gradually extended to support a variety of desktop, mobile, console and virtual reality platforms. It is particularly popular for iOS and Android mobile game development and is considered easy to use for beginner developers and is popular for indie game development.

The engine can be used to create three-dimensional (3D) and two-dimensional (2D) games, as well as interactive simulations and other experiences. The engine has been adopted by industries outside video gaming, such as film, automotive, architecture, engineering, construction, and the United States Armed Forces.

### Unity Basic concepts :

- **Project Window**
    The Project Window displays all of the files related to your Project and is the main way you can navigate and find Assets and other Project files in your application. 

- **Console Window**
    The Console Window displays errors, warnings, and other messages the Editor generates. These errors and warnings help you find issues in your project, such as script compilation errors. They also alert you to actions the Editor has taken automatically, such as replacing missing meta files, which could cause an issue somewhere else in your project.

- **Hierarchy Window**
    The Hierarchy window displays every GameObject in a Scene, such as models, Cameras, or You can use the Hierarchy window to sort and group the GameObjects you use in a Scene. When you add or remove GameObjects in the Scene view, you also add or remove them from the Hierarchy window.

- **Inspector Panel**
    Use the Inspector window to view and edit properties and settings for almost everything in the Unity Editor, including GameObjects, Unity components, Assets, Materials, and in-Editor settings and preferences.

- **Material**
    In Unity, you use materials and shaders together to define the appearance of your scene. A Material is a file that contains information about the lighting of an object with that material.

- **Prefab**
    Prefabs are a special type of component that allows fully configured GameObjects to be saved in the Project for reuse. These assets can then be shared between scenes, or even other projects without having to be configured again.

- **Collision**
    Collisions in Unity are separated from the actual Sprite itself, attached as separate components and are calculated on their own.

- **Physics**
    Physics in Unity ensure that objects accelerate and respond to collisions, gravity, and various other forces. Unity provides us with different physics engine implementations which you can use according to your Project needs.



## Vuforia 

Vuforia is an augmented reality software development kit (SDK) for mobile devices that enables the creation of augmented reality applications. It uses computer vision technology to recognize and track planar images and 3D objects in real time. This image registration capability enables developers to position and orient virtual objects, such as 3D models and other media, in relation to real world objects when they are viewed through the camera of a mobile device. The virtual object then tracks the position and orientation of the image in real-time so that the viewer's perspective on the object corresponds with the perspective on the target. It thus appears that the virtual object is a part of the real-world scene.

The Vuforia SDK supports a variety of 2D and 3D target types including ‘markerless’ Image Targets, 3D Model Target, and a form of addressable Fiducial Marker, known as a VuMark. Additional features of the SDK include 6 degrees of freedom device localization in space, localized Occlusion Detection using ‘Virtual Buttons’, runtime image target selection, and the ability to create and reconfigure target sets programmatically at runtime.

### Unity and Vuforia integration

- Create an account on Vuforia
- Login 
- Go to downloads and download the latest version of Vuforia engine 
- Import it in unity
    - You can either drag and drop it 
    or 
	- Right click on the project panel 
    - Click on 'Import package' 
    - Click on Custom package 
    - Navigate to the vuforia package you just installed
    - Then click on import
- Go to the Hierarchy panel
- Create the AR Camera object and Image target object by
    - Right click and choose the Vuforia Engine and select the AR Camera then again right click and choose the Vuforia Engine and select the Image target.
- Then go to the develop section in the vuforia portal (Browser)
- Under License manager
	- Get basic license 
	- Copy the license key 
	- Open unity and click on the AR Camera object then in the Inspector panel click on 'Open Vuforia Engine Configuration' under Vuforia Behaviour(Script) 
	- Then paste the license key in the app license key textbox (Dont click on the add license) 
- Under Target manager
    - Click on add database 
	- Enter database name and select the device option 
	- Then select the DryRun1 database
	- Add target (Type: Image, Width: 6, Unique name)
	- Rating indicates how augmentable our image is.
	- If you select the target you can see the details and if you click on show features you can check the features which are making the target unique.
	- After that download the database and select the 'Unity Editor' and download it.
- Import the database package in unity
- Then select the Image target and choose 'from database' option under type
- Then select the database you just imported under the Database 
- Then select the Image target we uploaded to Vuforia 

## Basic AR App

- Start with Unity and Vuforia integration
- Then for trial you can create a 3d object to test AR I ll be trying with the cube but you can choose whichever you like
- Now we will make this object the child of our image target which will position the cube relative to our image target. Let's build and try it.
- As you can see that even if we remove our image target the cube is still in the screen
- Now If you want you can keep it that way but as we want the objects to be relative to our target image
	- We will select the Tracked option under 'Consider target as visible if its status is:' in the ImageTarget object
